I was thoroughly intimidated. The unapproachable sort. 

I could grow to like him, though. From rounded chin to 
rounded heel. Then, within days, I would learn to hate him. 

This, the very person whose photo on the application 
form months earlier had leapt out with promises of instant 
affinities. 


Taking in summer guests was my parents' way of helping 
young academics revise a manuscript before publication. For 
six weeks each summer I'd have to vacate my bedroom and 
move one room down the corridor into a much smaller room 
that had once belonged to my grandfather. During the 
winter months, when we were away in the city, it became a 
part-time toolshed, storage room, and attic where rumor had 
it my grandfather, my namesake, still ground his teeth in his 
eternal sleep. Summer residents didn't have to pay 
anything, were given the full run of the house, and could 
basically do anything they pleased, provided they spent an 
hour or so a day helping my father with his correspondence 
and assorted paperwork. They became part of the family, 
and after about fifteen years of doing this, we had gotten 
used to a shower of postcards and gift packages not only 
around Christmastime but all year long from people who 
were now totally devoted to our family and would go out of 
their way when they were in Europe to drop by B. for a day 
or two with their family and take a nostalgic tour of their old 
digs. 

At meals there were frequently two or three other guests, 
sometimes neighbors or relatives, sometimes colleagues, 
lawyers, doctors, the rich and famous who'd drop by to see 
my father on their way to their own summer houses. 
Sometimes we'd even open our dining room to the 
occasional tourist couple who'd heard of the old villa and 
simply wanted to come by and take a peek and were totally 



enchanted when asked to eat with us and tell us all about 
themselves, while Mafalda, informed at the last minute, 
dished out her usual fare. My father, who was reserved and 
shy in private, loved nothing better than to have some 
precocious rising expert in a field keep the conversation 
going in a few languages while the hot summer sun, after a 
few glasses of rosatello, ushered in the unavoidable 
afternoon torpor. We named the task dinner drudgery— and, 
after a while, so did most of our six-week guests. 


Maybe it started soon after his arrival during one of those 
grinding lunches when he sat next to me and it finally 
dawned on me that, despite a light tan acquired during his 
brief stay in Sicily earlier that summer, the color on the 
palms of his hands was the same as the pale, soft skin of his 
soles, of his throat, of the bottom of his forearms, which 
hadn't really been exposed to much sun. Almost a light pink, 
as glistening and smooth as the underside of a lizard's belly. 
Private, chaste, unfledged, like a blush on an athlete's face 
or an instance of dawn on a stormy night. It told me things 
about him I never knew to ask. 

It may have started during those endless hours after 
lunch when everybody lounged about in bathing suits inside 
and outside the house, bodies sprawled everywhere, killing 
time before someone finally suggested we head down to the 
rocks for a swim. Relatives, cousins, neighbors, friends, 
friends of friends, colleagues, or just about anyone who 
cared to knock at our gate and ask if they could use our 
tennis court—everyone was welcome to lounge and swim 
and eat and, if they stayed long enough, use the 
guesthouse. 



Or perhaps it started on the beach. Or at the tennis court. Or 
during our first walk together on his very first day when I 
was asked to show him the house and its surrounding area 
and, one thing leading to the other, managed to take him 
past the very old forged-iron metal gate as far back as the 
endless empty lot in the hinterland toward the abandoned 
train tracks that used to connect B. to N. “Is there an 
abandoned station house somewhere?" he asked, looking 
through the trees under the scalding sun, probably trying to 
ask the right question of the owner's son. "No, there was 
never a station house. The train simply stopped when you 
asked." He was curious about the train; the rails seemed so 
narrow. It was a two-wagon train bearing the royal insignia, I 
explained. Gypsies lived in it now. They'd been living there 
ever since my mother used to summer here as a girl. The 
gypsies had hauled the two derailed cars farther inland. Did 
he want to see them? “Later. Maybe." Polite indifference, as 
if he'd spotted my misplaced zeal to play up to him and was 
summarily pushing me away. 

But it stung me. 